the wolf is a formidable hunter
and in Alaska it pursues one animal
relentlessly caribou or reindeer as
they're known in Europe these gentle
giants seem vulnerable to the wolf pack
but the caribou have a brilliant secret
that helps them to see wolves coming and
it's all to do with ultraviolet light
that is invisible to us and in this
frozen landscape UV vision is a
particularly powerful weapon
snow reflects ultraviolet light so
although we can't see it this is a world
awash with UV more importantly for the
caribou and I think that doesn't reflect
UV like wool fur stands out against the
bright UV background even if it looks
perfectly camouflaged to our eyes to
show how effective this hidden world of
light is for the caribou dr. chaski must
get up close to a wolf this is a
habituated wolf you can see that she's
pretty well camouflaged against her
background if you're looking from a long
way away against a big landscape you
find this wolf pretty hard to spot but
that's not how of caribou see the world
and to get an idea of what they see I'm
gonna take a picture using this uu
camera this specially modified camera
can see the UV light that's invisible to
our eyes objects that reflect UV appear
white and thinks that absorb UV appear
black
the pictures are really clear the snow
is bright bright white because the UV is
reflecting off this has loads of UV
around in the snowy background and then
when the wolf comes into shots it stands
out because it's so dark and that's
because the horse fur absorbs UV light
the image is particularly striking
because of the huge amounts of UV being
reflected off the snowy landscape behind
and so for a caribou being able to see
in the ultraviolet is really useful you
see white snow and a very very obvious
wolf
by tapping into ultraviolet light at
this extreme end of the spectrum caribou
have stripped their March predator of
its camouflage
they have pushed vision to the limit to
see light our eyes can't detect right at
the very edge of the spectrum
you